again the anger of the Lord was aroused
against Israel and he moved David
against them to say go number Israel and
Judah so the king said to Joab the
commander of the army who was with him
now go throughout all the tribes of
Israel from Dan to Beersheba and count
the people that I may know the number of
the people now may the Lord your God add
to the people a hundred times more than
there are and may the eyes of my lord
the King see it but why does my lord the
King desire this thing
nevertheless the Kings word prevailed
against Joab and against the captains of
the army therefore Joab and the captains
of the army went out from the presence
of the King to count the people of
Israel and they crossed over the Jordan
and camped in a row on the right side of
the town which is in the midst of the
ravine of God and toward Jason then they
came to Gilead and to the land of Totten
Hajj Chou they came to Dantean and
around Sidon and they came to the
stronghold of Tyre and to all the cities
of the highlights and the Canaanites
then they went out to south Judah as far
as be a Sheba so when they had gone
through all the land they came to
Jerusalem at the end of nine months and
20 days then Joab gave the sum of the
number of the people to the king
and there were in Israel 800,000 valiant
men who drew the sword and the men of
Judah were five hundred thousand men and
David's heart condemned him after he had
numbered the people so David said to the
Lord I have sinned greatly in what I
have done but now I pray O Lord take
away the iniquity of your servant for I
have done very foolishly now when David
arose in the morning the word of the
Lord came to the Prophet Gant David seer
go and tell David thus says the Lord I
offer you three things choose one of
them for yourself that I may do it to
you so GAD came to David and tow them
shall seven years of famine come to you
in your land or shall you flee three
months before your enemies while they
pursue you or shall there be three days
plague in your land now consider and see
what answer I should take back to him
who sent me I am in great distress
please let us fall into the hand of the
Lord praise mercies are great but do not
let me fall into the hand of man so the
Lord sent a plague upon Israel from the
morning till the appointed time from Dan
to Beersheba 70,000 men of the people
died
when the angel stretched out his hand
over Jerusalem to destroy it the Lord
relented from the destruction and said
to the angel who was destroying the
people it is enough now restrain your
hand and the angel of the Lord was by
the threshing floor of Araunah the
Jebusite then David spoke to the Lord
when he saw the angel who was striking
the people surely I have sinned and I
have done wickedly but these sheep what
have they done let your hand and I pray
be against me and against my father's
house and GAD came that day to David and
said to him go up erect an altar to the
Lord on the threshing floor of Araunah
the Jebusite so David according to the
Word of God went up as the LORD
commanded now aruna looked and saw the
king and his servants coming toward him
so aruna went out and bowed before the
king with his face to the ground why has
my lord the king come to his servant to
buy the threshing floor from you to
build an altar to the Lord that the
plague may be withdrawn from the people
let my lord the king take and offer up
whatever seems good to him look in our
oxen for burnt sacrifice and threshing
implements and the yokes of the oxen for
wood all these Oh King aruna has given
to the king
may the Lord your God except you no but
I will surely buy it from you for a
price nor will I offer burnt offerings
to the Lord my God with that which costs
me nothing
so David bought the threshing floor and
the oxen for fifty shekels of silver and
David built there an altar to the Lord
and offered burnt offerings and peace
offerings so the Lord heeded the prayers
for the land
and the claig was withdrawn from Israel
[Music]